---
title: "introduction"
date: 2023--02-01
---

I started learning python from basics.
As I did in [intro.py](https://github.com/Sharath8599/Learning-python/blob/main/code/intro.py)
This prints out: Hello and welcome Sharath!

# It is a hello world program

This was just a comment so that we can identify our code in future.

print("Hello world!")

the print() function is used to tell a computer to talk.

String is one of the datatypes in python. Computer programmers refer to blocks of text as strings. 
In Python a string is either surrounded by double quotes ("abc") or single quotes ('abc'). It doesn’t matter which kind you use.
Programming languages offer a method of storing data for reuse. 
If there is a data we need to reuse, or a user ID we need to remember we can create a variable which can store a value. 
We can also change those values later.

Python also has other datatypes like integer and float.
Integer: is a whole number and does not have decimal point.
Float: this datatype has decimal point.

When it comes to calculations, python is like normal calculator except when it does division. Python converts all the integers into floating numbers while doing division.
For example, 2/2 is usually 1, but python gives us 1.0

## Concatenation: 
The process of combining two strings is called concatenation. We can also concatenate a string and a number using str() function.

string1="Hi"
string1+str(1)
When we print this out, we get: Hi1

Python offers an interesting plus equals operator.
When you have a number saved in a variable and want to add the current value of the variable to it, you can use the +=
a=0
b=2
a+=b
now a is also 2.

One more concept I learned while doing the code was errors, mostly I got SyntaxError and NameError.
SyntaxError: a punctuation that does not belong, a command where it is not expected, or a missing parenthesis.
A NameError: a word that Python interpreter does not recognize or Code that contains something that looks like a variable but was never defined.
###### Hoping to get better
I feel I only learnt a little part of python till now. I am excited to learn more and code fluently in python. Hope it happens!
