---
title: "Loops and Functions"
date: 2023-03-01
---
# Loops

Printing 1000's of print statements by writing 1000 seperate print statements is hard. We use loops concept in order to overcome this lengthy and time consuming proceess.
### For Loops
In Python, **for** loops are used to iterate over a sequence of values.

In a for loop, we will know in advance how many times the loop will need to iterate because we will be working on a collection with a predefined length.

We can also pair our for loops with the trusty Python built-in function **range()**.

### While Loops
A while loop performs a set of instructions as long as a given condition is true.

I also got to know how we use the **len()** function to find out the length of lists.

> break: When te given condition is met at the 10th iteration and the there are 100 elements in the list to iterate. We can stop at the 10th iteration itself by passing break statement. 

There are other situations where we don’t want to end the loop entirely. What if we only want to skip the current iteration of the loop? Then **continue** statement comes into picture.

I used all these concepts and implemented in a program [salon.py](https://github.com/Sharath8599/Learning-python/blob/main/code/salon.py)

# Functions
Functions in Python are a way to break down a program into smaller, more manageable pieces of code. Functions are blocks of code that are designed to perform specific tasks or operations. They can be defined once and reused multiple times throughout the program, which makes code more easier to read, and easier to maintain.
> return: Functions can also return a value to the program so that this value can be modified or used later. We use the Python keyword return to do this.
While learning about functions I learned,

What problems arise in our programs without functions,

What functions are and how to write them,

How whitespace plays an important role in how a program will execute our code and more importantly distinguish function code from non-function code,

How to pass input values into our functions using parameters and arguments,

The difference between built-in and user-defined functions and some common built-in functions python offers,

How we can reuse function output with the return keyword, as well as multiple returns.

Where variables can be accessed in our programs that use functions

I used all these concepts and built program, [Trip_planner](https://github.com/Sharath8599/Learning-python/blob/main/code/Trip_planner.py)

I also did a project based on these concepts and there were some challenges doing this project, [physics_class.py](https://github.com/Sharath8599/Learning-python/blob/main/code/physics_class.py)

Hoping to learn more!
